README.md, before:

# flake8-executable

[![Pyversions](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/flake8-executable.svg?style=flat-square)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/flake8-executable)
![PyPI](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/flake8-executable.svg)
![PyPI - Downloads](https://img.shields.io/pypi/dm/flake8-executable)
[![Build Status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/h6mucl894w6dx7d0?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/xuhdev/flake8-executable)

Very often, developers mess up the executable permissions and shebangs of Python files. For example,
sometimes the executable permission was accidentally granted, sometimes it is forgotten.

This is a [Flake8][] plugin that ensures the executable permissions and shebangs of Python files are
correctly set. Specifically, it checks the following errors:

- EXE001: Shebang is present but the file is not executable.
- EXE002: The file is executable but no shebang is present.
- EXE003: Shebang is present but does not contain "python".
- EXE004: There is whitespace before shebang.
- EXE005: There are blank or comment lines before shebang.

## Installation

Run:

    pip install flake8-executable

Or through `pre-commit` with the `.pre-commit-config.yaml`:

```yaml
repos:
-   repo: https://github.com/PyCQA/flake8
    rev: 6.0.0  # replace with the latest flake8 release
    hooks:
    -   id: flake8
        additional_dependencies:
        - flake8-executable
```

## Usage

Normally, after flake8-executable is installed, invoking flake8 will also run this plugin. For more
details, check out the [Flake8 plugin page][].

## Copyright and License

Copyright (c) 2019 Hong Xu <hong@topbug.net>

flake8-executable is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the
GNU Lesser General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of
the License, or (at your option) any later version.

flake8-executable is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY;
without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
GNU Lesser General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License along with
flake8-executable. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.



[Flake8]: https://flake8.pycqa.org/
[Flake8 plugin page]: https://flake8.pycqa.org/en/latest/user/using-plugins.html

Commit message:

Add EXE006: Shebang is present but it hard-codes the path to python
The Python tutorial suggests using `#!/usr/bin/env python` for
shebangs.

This way is better than plain `#!/usr/bin/python` because it allows
the user running the script to control which Python executable to
interpret the script with.

This is especially true when working with virtualenvs, custom install
prefixes, and the like.

README.md, after:

# flake8-executable

[![Pyversions](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/flake8-executable.svg?style=flat-square)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/flake8-executable)
![PyPI](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/flake8-executable.svg)
![PyPI - Downloads](https://img.shields.io/pypi/dm/flake8-executable)
[![Build Status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/h6mucl894w6dx7d0?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/xuhdev/flake8-executable)

It's possible to make [executable Python scripts][] by adding a _[shebang][]_ line to the top of the file, and setting the execute bit of its permissions.

Very often, however, developers mess up the executable permissions and shebangs of Python files. For example,
sometimes the executable permission was accidentally granted, sometimes it is forgotten.

This is a [Flake8][] plugin that ensures the executable permissions and shebangs of Python files are
correctly set. Specifically, it checks the following errors:

- EXE001: Shebang is present but the file is not executable.
- EXE002: The file is executable but no shebang is present.
- EXE003: Shebang is present but does not contain "python".
- EXE004: There is whitespace before shebang.
- EXE005: There are blank or comment lines before shebang.
- EXE006: Shebang is present but it hard-codes the path to python.

## Installation

Run:

    pip install flake8-executable

Or through `pre-commit` with the `.pre-commit-config.yaml`:

```yaml
repos:
-   repo: https://github.com/PyCQA/flake8
    rev: 6.0.0  # replace with the latest flake8 release
    hooks:
    -   id: flake8
        additional_dependencies:
        - flake8-executable
```

## Usage

Normally, after flake8-executable is installed, invoking flake8 will also run this plugin. For more
details, check out the [Flake8 plugin page][].

## Copyright and License

Copyright (c) 2019 Hong Xu <hong@topbug.net>

flake8-executable is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the
GNU Lesser General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of
the License, or (at your option) any later version.

flake8-executable is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY;
without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
GNU Lesser General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License along with
flake8-executable. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.



[Executable Python scripts]: https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/appendix.html#executable-python-scripts
[Shebang]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shebang_(Unix)
[Flake8]: https://flake8.pycqa.org/
[Flake8 plugin page]: https://flake8.pycqa.org/en/latest/user/using-plugins.html
